Agenda
======
* [Centralized Jenkins](http://198.74.56.37:8080/) update - the details
* [RHEL6 developer cost](http://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/RHEL6-issues.md)
* [Instrument downloading proposal](http://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Design/InstrumentFetching.md)
* [Workspace history  proposal](http://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Design/Nested%20History%20Detailed%20Design%20Document.docx)
* Next generation offline docs - using [QHelpEngine](http://qt-project.org/doc/qt-4.8/qthelp-framework.html#using-qhelpengine-api)
* Request from PMB to have version N and N-1 installed on linux machines.
* Documentation workflow proposal ![Documentation workflow proposal](../../../Design/Documentation/Documentation%20workflow%20option%201.png)

Minutes
=======
