Agenda
======

Pinned Topics
-------------
* Review any outstanding external pull request or issues? (Owen)
* Any updates to [tracking design table](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/TSC-TrackingDesignProposals.md)?

New Items
---------

* Review move of master build jobs from matrix to per-configuration jobs and how best to visualize this. See [pipeline view](http://builds.mantidproject.org/view/Master%20Pipeline/) (Martyn)
* New `clang-format` [enforcement plan](http://builds.mantidproject.org/job/master_clang-format/) (Ross)
* Review [Workflow Caching Design](/Design/WorkflowCaching.md) (Pete)
* Visual Studio 2015 licensing (Steve)
* Dependencies between [maintenance tasks](Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/MaintenanceTasks.md)

Minutes
-------

* Will not process outside pull requests just before release
* Two designs been implemented and updated in tracking design table
* Martyn will figure out how to get an extra line in the wall display for the pipeline jobs
* TSC approves the plan for producing patch files on a pull request basis
