Agenda
======

* Report from PMB meeting
* Representative from ESS.
* Make suggestion of topics the TSC presents at developer meeting and agenda items for TSC meeting days scheduled during: http://www.mantidproject.org/Category:January_2015_Visit (Pete)
* Are you are aware if there exist good documenation for: describe well which documentation needs to updated before fixing a ticket and tested when testing a ticket. If not should this be a maintenance task?

Minutes
=======

* Desire for presentation on MantidPlot replacement and MantidCloud topics for SSC.  
* It was agreed for Tobias Richter to join the Technical Steering Committee.
* Updated the Wiki
