Agenda
======
1. Actions from last meeting
1. Decide on proposed [design for embedded IDF in Nexus](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Design/EmbeddedInstrumentInfoNexus.md)
5. [ParaView roadmap for mantid](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/VATES/ParaView_VSI_Roadmap.md) - Michael

Minutes
=======
1. Martyn created a ticket [#10060](http://trac.mantidproject.org/mantid/ticket/10060) Stuart created copr repository.  ACTION: Stuart to look into creating a generic mantid copr account. Stuart has set a Mavericks and clang job (using homebrew packages) which builds but tests fail.  We should probably test Mavericks with the latest Intel Compiler.  
2. Anders gave overview of his design.  ACTION: All to add comments to proposal.
