Agenda
======
1. Actions from last meeting
1. Decide on proposed [design for embedded IDF in Nexus](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Design/EmbeddedInstrumentInfoNexus.md)
2. Owen to discuss MultiPeriod WorkspaceGroups issue and possible design choices
3. John Hill's request for [CCfits](http://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/fitsio/CCfits/) to be shipped with Mantid
4. Discuss future of tcmalloc - Martyn
5. Assign any outstanding pull requests
5. [ParaView roadmap for mantid](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/VATES/ParaView_VSI_Roadmap.md) - Michael
