Minutes
=======


## Mantid PMB Meeting 14

**Minutes of: 2017-07-19T09:00-4:00**


## In Attendance

    * ESS - Taylor
    * ILL - Gonzalez, Mutti, Bush
    * ORNL - Granroth, Peterson, Proffen, Leal
    * ISIS - Draper, Greenfield, Pascal, Griffin, Cottrell

## Topics

1. Changes to the PMB
    - ISIS: Griffin will substitute Greenfield in her absence.

3. Actions
    - Powder diffraction training material (Granroth)
        - The training material was swapped with direct geoometry spectometer and will be availble in the form of notebooks in August.
    - New IDF:
        The major need appears to be at the ILL for indirect geometry. To be completed.
    - Mantid core team and long term plan (Taylor)
        - Small teams will be formed at all the institutes to form a Core Team.
        - The Core team will begin with a startup meeting in September.
        - The team should present a proposal on the first item considered to the next PMB.
        - The proposal shoud include what needs to be done (e.g. for Mantid as a Scipy style library), benefits, risks, resources and time scales.
        - Some discussion involved:
            - Peter Peterson raised the question should the driection be Pyton core + `C++` vs `C++` core with Python bindings - this could be considered by the core team but no specific direction was decided.
            - Involve scientists that have used the Python API and have gone through some fustrations using it.
            - Scientist should review the first draft design
            - The new framework should be much easier to develop into.
            - Contributing to the framework should be easy.
        - The guiding principle decided was:
            - Not a totally loose guideline for the core team.
            - The team should focus on the Scipy style library and workspaces from the Mantid 5 year plan
            - Focus on the performance and stability            
 
4. PM Report (Nick Draper)
    - This involved an overview of the document previously shared.
      [Link to the PM report](../PM report to the PMB 19 July 2017.doc)
    - The main points were the Users Workshop and the Progress on Mantid 4.0.

5. TSC Report (Peterson)
    - The major points presented were:
        - Progress on the Mantid 4 Workbench
        - Progress on Python 2 and 3 compatibility

6. Developers Meeting Report (Peterson)
    - New format: split the group in two orgnized as code camp appears to work better.
    - Highlights were:
        - Spread of knowledge
        - Documentation improvements
        - Faster pull request builds

7. Facility updates / news 
    - SNS: Powergen is comming soon and will need a new IDF.
    - ILL: has finished the developments for Back Scattering

10. Scientific steering committee discussion
    - The feedback from the users workshop:
        - Users provide a different perspective
        - Need to decide what Mantid does: Reduction and Analysis vs just reduction?
        - It is necessary to have face to face conversations with external users.
        - Organise a PMB meeting within that week.
        - Action:
            - Each facility need to come up with a list of users per area of expertise and share with the PMB by September.
        - Next User Metting:
            - SNS is the best place for it to took place, alothough the ILL might be a good location for 2019.
            - The best date is likelly to be January or February 2018

12. Next Meeting
    - October / November 2017
        - Leal will send a Doodle

Summary of actions
------------------
- Core team finishes the first proposal for the next PMB meeting.
- Face to Face review: share with the PMB a list of users per area of expertise by September.
- Prepare Users & developer meeting for January or February 2018 at SNS
- Leal will send a doodle for the next PMB meeting: October / November 2017
- Nick to email User meeting attendees with Update on Mantid 4.0 plans
- Nick To prepare a respone to review document ahd share with the PMB

