# Minutes :: Mantid PMB Meeting 14

10:00 AM, Eastern Time (ET); 
3:00 PM, Western European Time (WET);
4:00 PM, Central European Time (CET)

## In Attendance

ESS - Taylor
ILL - Bush, Gonzalez 
ORNL - Granroth, Peterson, Proffen, Leal
ISIS - Draper, Greenfield, Manuel, Cottrell

### 1. Changes to the PMB

- Ricardo F. Leal is the new secretary 
- ILL: Miguel is the ILL Mantid supervisor.
- ILL has not yet signed the documents (Mantid partner?)

### 2. Minutes from the last PMB meeting

1. New and ongoing actions

  8.8 - Drive the adding of Mantid training material for powder diffraction (GG/TP). 
    Nobebooks are beeing prepared. A video will be available in May.

  9.5 - Look into next generation of IDF
    No major progress. TSC will prioritize.

  11.2 - Organize Mantid review documents and list of possible reviewers. Ongoing. Discussing the results of the SSI.

2. Completed actions

  11.3 - Name for the SSC chair. Done.

### 3. PM Report (ND)

- Mantid usage gre significantly
- List of algorithms to potentially remove
- Release dates: ORNL will contact Nick about pushing the October 9th release date.

### 4. Facility updates / news

- ESS: Mark is leaving DMSC
- Mantid core team: 2 developers left. 1 new. 1 comming in January.
- ORNL: S. Campbell leaving. RL new developments for HFIR SANS. PP is developing Qt enviroments.
- ILL: Working on Scanning instruments. Picking up on Reflectometry. Back Scattering and Spectroscopy near conclusion. Powder will be next.

### 6. Mantid review discussion of results & next steps

6.1. Collaborative review 

- GG suggested keeping the SSI survey open for users. More information on UX to try to push the Neutral opinion to Satisfied.
- JT sugested to ask SSI to provide a document with a list o guidelines / actions to improve key areas in the survey.
  - This list should be prioritezed and assigned by the PMB
  
6.1. Technical review 

- SSI has not looked yet to the code (they were asked to). GG mentioned they said they had not enough time for that.
- As before, they should suggest a list of recomendations to improve key areas of the code.
- JT will send a reminder in the new year to remind ILL/ORNL/ISIS about what will be the next part of the review.

### 7. Technical Steering Committee report (PP)

- Need to reduce the supported systems. RHEL6 is the top priority followed by Ubuntu 14.04 (used by ILL).
- Matplotlib appears to be the best plotting solution.
- All algorithms are now Python 3 compatible.

### 8. Mantid 4.0 discussion

- After discussion of the several options for Mantid 4.0 plotting, the PMB approved a new Workbench to replace MantidPlot.
- ND will send the details about the calculation of effort needed for this task.

### 9. Scientific steering committee discussion (SC / ND)

- It was suggested the creation of a Pre-Meeting before the annual SSC.
  - Pre-Meeting happens 1 month before the Main meeting. It will happen at a facility / technique level with representation of users.

- The annual wider meeting reports from the pre-meetings.
  - It was suggested to replace the name to "Mantid Users Workshop".
  - The PMB will provide info for these meetings: questions, ideas, plans for next versions.
  - The outcome / report of this meeting will be provided to the PMB. The PMB will "filter" the report and deliver it to the TSC.

Important dates:
- 12-13 June : Mantid users meeting
- 14-16 June : Mantid developers workshop

### 10. Next Meeting

- Late March. RL will send a doodle around next year.

