Mantid PMB Meeting 13
Minutes of 2016-08-09T09:00-4:00

In Attendance
* ESS - Taylor
* ILL - Bush
* ORNL - Granroth, Peterson, Proffen
* ISIS - Draper, Greenfield, Perring

1.	Review of minutes from the last PMB meeting
  1. New and ongoing actions
    * 8.8 - Drive the adding of Mantid training material for powder diffraction in 2-3 months. The training material 
      will be published on web. - GG/TP - will be pushed back to later date
    * 9.5 - Look into next generation of IDF - SC - no progress
    * NEW - 12 month plan needs a link on the mantid webpage and circulated further - ND
    * 11.2 - Organize Mantid review documents and list of possible reviewers - JT, PP, GG, 1 from ISIS
    * 11.3 - ISIS will come up with a name for the SSC chair - DG, TP - no progress
    * 12.1
    * 12.2
    * NEW - next meeting should be in person at NOBUGS
  2. Completed actions
    * 10.5 - Constitution of Mantid - ND - done
    * 11.1 - Finalize and socialize the 12 month plan - ND - done/living document
2.	[PM report](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/PMB/PM%20report%20to%20the%20PMB%209%20August%202016.doc) - ND
3.	[Mantid 4.0](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/PMB/Release%20Planning%20for%20Mantid%20version%204.pptx) - ND
  * The proposal was nominally approved and needs to be converted into more detailed plans
4.	TSC report - PP
  * nothing presented
5.	Review for Mantid project - JT
  * PMB members need to review and comment on the "SSI Project Initiation Document" google doc
  * PMB members need to generate a list of instrument scientists and facility users that will participate with SSI - ND create google doc to share
  * Desire to circulate the SSI questionaire(s) in mid to late September
