Agenda
======

Pinned Topics
-------------
* Review any outstanding external pull request or issues? (Owen)
* Any updates to [tracking design table](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/TSC-TrackingDesignProposals.md)?

New Items
---------
* [Exceptions and error logging in algorithms](/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/exceptions_and_error_logging.md).
* [Report on Qt4 being unsupported](/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/MantidQt5.md)
* Status of [release v3.9](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+milestone%3A%22Release+3.9%22)
* Status of [maintenance tasks](/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/MaintenanceTasks.md)

Minutes
-------
Attendees: Draper, Gigg, Peterson, Savici, Whitfield

We went through the items, (nominally) approved the various reports, and discussed status of the release.
