Agenda
======

Pinned Topics
-------------
* Review any outstanding external pull request or issues? (Owen)
* Any updates to [tracking design table](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/TSC-TrackingDesignProposals.md)?

New Items
---------
- [Custom URL for Algorithms not part of the Mantid distribution](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/pull/41/files)
- [WorkspacePropertyWithIndex Design](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/pull/42)
- Mantid developer meeting
  - [Developer survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfm8KZ1BXvb_3zrOJKhjCjnaudooW4M5i6DRYC9giG0jl2v3Q/viewform?usp=sf_link)
  - SSI reports (science and tech one)
  - Focus this year continues on maintenance
  - Mantid is a scipy styled library - how do we make this a reality
  - Progress on mantid v4 work

Minutes
-------
Attendees: Draper, Heybrock, Moore, Boreguerro, Peterson, Savici, Hahn

- Design for custom help url for algorithms was approved with minor changes
- `boost::shared_ptr` is required until all supported platforms are at boost 1.63 - Pete send email to dev list
- WorkspacePropertyWithIndex design was given some comments and will be reviewed again at the next meeting
- Developer meeting
  - Working groups work on projects in 2 hour chunks
  - Show off good examples of project philosophy
  - Mid/long term plans and progress (workspace index, instrument 2.0, histogram, mpi, new workbench, algorithm/parameter renaming, external projects, scipy style library & conda, ...)
  - Review previous developer meeting agendas
  - Lighting talks
