Agenda
======

Pinned Topics
-------------
* Review any outstanding external pull request or issues? (Owen)
* Any updates to [tracking design table](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/TSC-TrackingDesignProposals.md)? (Fede)

New Items
---------
* First pass on "big" TSC items from dev workshop for PMB to prioritize ([1](/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/DevMeetingItems-2016.md), [2](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/SSC%20%26%20Strategy%20Collated%20requirements.xlsx), [3](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/SSC%20%26%20Strategy%20Task%20list.xlsx))

Minutes
-------

In attendance: Arnold, Draper, Gigg, Hahn, Heybrock, Peterson, Pouzols, Savici, Wedel
