Agenda
======

Pinned Topics
-------------
* Review any outstanding external pull request or issues? (Owen)
* Any updates to [tracking design table](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/TSC-TrackingDesignProposals.md)? (Fede)

Minutes
---------
Attendees: Peterson, Savici, Whitfield, Hahn, Draper, Gigg, Heybrock, Arnold, Fede

* Removing [qt3 warnings](http://builds.mantidproject.org/job/master_clean-Qt3-warnings/) will be a big push during the [next maintenance period](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/MaintenanceTasks.md)
* Development will continue on [supporting gsl2](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/15421), but it is not planned for the release. This **may** be a reason to have a patch release.
* Stuart Ansell suggested to moving to latest version of [CombLayer](https://github.com/SAnsell/CombLayer)
