Agenda
======

Pinned Topics
-------------
* Review any outstanding external pull request or issues? (Lamar)
* Any updates to [tracking design table](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/TSC-TrackingDesignProposals.md)?

New Items
---------
* [Maintenance Tasks](../reports/MaintenanceTasks.md)
* Adding [sphinxcontrib-bibtex](https://sphinxcontrib-bibtex.readthedocs.io) to the list of dependencies
* Nexus reference frame vs IDFs. Do we do anything about this? (Lamar)
* [An issue with distributions and dimensionless units](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/fix-divide-distribution/Design/DistributionsAndDimensionlessData.md) and [Multiplication and division rules for histograms](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/pull/25)
* Should we use GTest? See https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/pull/21671.

Minutes
-------
Attendees: Hahn, Peterson, Savici, Vardanyan, Whitfield

* The group went over the list of maintenance tasks. It was decided that documentation is the big push for this maintenance cycle.
