Agenda
======

* Update on progress with new workbench (Martyn)
* Update on [developer meeting](https://www.mantidproject.org/Category:Developer_Workshop_2018). Please [register by January 8](https://conference.sns.gov/event/93/) (Pete)

Questions
=========
