Agenda
======

Pinned Topics
-------------
* Review any outstanding external pull request or issues? (Owen)
* Any updates to [tracking design table](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/TSC-TrackingDesignProposals.md)? (Fede)

New Items
---------
* Review of membership (Pete)
* Lightning talks 2-5 mins (Owen)
* Review [#3](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/pull/3) - DataProcessorAlgorithm Batch UI design doc (Owen)
* Review [#5](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/pull/5) - Algorithm Usage Statistics (Nick)

Minutes
-------
In attendace: Hahn, Whitfield, Savici, Peterson, Draper, Arnold, Gigg, Pouzols

* Reviewed external pull requests and the design document table
* Group agreed that 3 TSC members from each facility is fine
* Owen will contact developers with information about lightning talks for the developer meeting
* Approved DataProcessorAlgorithm Batch UI design
* Approved Algorithm Usage Statistics
