Agenda
======

Pinned Topics
-------------
* Review any outstanding external pull request or issues? (Owen)
* Any updates to [tracking design table](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/TSC-TrackingDesignProposals.md)? (Fede)

New Items
---------
* Technical Debt Topic for Workshop. Preferences on running this? (Simon/Owen)
* Potential Workshop topic: Unifcation of interactive-/live-/batch-reduction. At least for some instruments separate code/workflows are maintained, this adds maintenance overhead and might be worth addressing before porting more things to MPI (Simon)
* Standardisation & SSC. Loss of namespace, too much code, too many facilities, what can the TSC do to help? (Owen)
* [Survey results](https://www.surveymonkey.com/results/SM-N5VB8VDJ/) and additions to the January workshop to reflect it ([digested comments](/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/DeveloperSurveyResults2015.md)) (Owen/Pete)

Minutes
-------
In attendance: Arnold, Campbell, Draper, Gigg, Heybrock, Peterson, Wedel

* Simon has a report on technical debt that Owen will add some information to. At the TSC (in January) we'll put together some discussion topics based off it for the developer meeting.
* Nick will figure out how to bring in the question of standarization of reduction at the SSC. Areas that will be more likely move forward are powder diffraction and indirect inelastic.
* Review of adapters/interfaces at the Dev meeting needs to be added to the agenda.
*
