## Meeting notes - 2016/08/23

Participants: Gagik Vardanyan, Antti Soininen, Ian Bush, Verena Reimund, Bjorn Fak, Mark Johnson, Miguel Gonzalez, Eric Pellegrini 

### IN16B:

* Initial goals for the week were:
 * VR - Shift Spectra method, fix masking, preserve metadata, add unit test, split into separate algorithm (?)
 * VR - Prefix for temporary workspaces
 * GV - Fix `graphviz` issue for building docs
 * GV - Caching for vanadium run for multiple files
 * GV - Alternative to debug mode?
 * GV - Finish GUI tweaks

* Verena gave a demo of the IN16B reduction GUI
 * Needs to be shown to Tilo
 * Some outstanding work was for background subtraction and Fixed Window Scans
* QENS reduction completed, unmirror options, multiple runs, calibration, GUI, tests and docs
* Double specification of calibration/vanadium run
 * Question about what combinations might be required, independent left and right wings, multiple files for vanadium
* Diagram of FWS scan design
 * MG - Velocity profile needs to check both profile and speed
* Question about grouping by temperature
 * For now should be done at the end
* Question about dealing with multiple file loading when one is missing
 * Low priority, but preference to skip missing with a warning

* Work for next week:
 * Catch up with Tilo, demo of GUI and check about calibration questions
 * GV - GUI Controller
 * VR - Fixed Window Scan reduction

### Pull Requests (Ian):

Mentioned that we should be reviewing others PRs. Agreed to do this, and keep some track of it, but not for these meetings.

### ToF Spectroscopy:

#### IN6 (Ian):

* Initial goals for the week were:
 * Work on `MergeRuns`:
   * Finish implementation, tests
   * Tolerances
   * Fail stop single file being merged
 * ToF Workflow...

* Recap of previous work
 * S(&phi;, E) plots good for IN6
 * IN6 IDF and loader changes awaiting review
 * Upper and lower bank angle of 11.5&deg; to be checked by MZ
 * Detector Efficiency Corrections still outstanding (BF looking into this)
 * Ticket `SeparateMonitorSpectra` picked up at ISIS
* MergeRuns Extension
 * Some behaviors now implemented
 * The option of building a time series was said to be worth doing
 * Still need to decide on merge approach for IN4/6 parameters (see [Google Docs](https://goo.gl/d4uBTf))
 * Question on XML format - agreed this should be easily configurable, so the more flexible option will be required (option 2)

* Work for next week:
 * MergeRuns
 * Review PRs
 * Holiday

#### IN4 (Antti):

* Initial goals for the week were:
 * `GetEiMonDet` may need to wait until meeting with Stephane Rols
 * Pick up other tickets from ToF Workflow

* Recap of previous work
 * [ToF Workflow Draft](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/ILL/TOF_and_BS/Mantid_workflow_proposal.md)
 * Going with MLZ's workflow
 * [IN4 IDF](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/ILL/Instrument_Definitions/IN4/IN4_Geometry.md) - BF provided some engineering diagrams, which looked like a good match (AS noted afterwards some small angle corrections required)
* Incident energy calibration with `GetEiMonDet` now works with PR
* How to extract neutron pulse interval from the sample log is still an outstanding question
* Detector efficiency corrections
 * Some comparison of features shown
 * Agreed that extending `DetectorEfficiencyCorUser` to take the parameters &theta;, P was the best approach

* Work for next week:
 * `DetectorEfficiencyCorUser` extension

