## Meeting notes - 2016/10/04

Participants: Ian Bush, Verena Reimund, Miguel Gonzalez, Bjorn Fak, Eric Pellegrini, Tilo Seydel, Gagik Vardanyan 

### IN16B:

#### Verena/Gagik:

Initial goals for the week:
 * VR - check build for TS to test
 * VR - fixed window scans workflow
 * GV - work on system tests for `IndirectILLReduction`
   * Question about one/many tests for mirror modes
   * Suggested to use most complex option, and possibly one or two others

#### Gagik:

* `MultipleFilePropertyOptionalLoad` changes to be merged
* New unit tests for `IndirectILLReduction` for unmirror options
* System test
* Fix for unmirror option 7, 5 still needs to use `MatchPeaks`
 * Showed a comparison of unmirror 7 showing good agreement between Lamp and Mantid
* Fix for x-axis conversion formula
* PR reviews

* Work for next week:
 * Test for `DataSelector` widget
 * Look into absorption corrections?
 * Spectrum-wise comparisons with Lamp
 * Tidy up code in algorithm

#### Verena:

* Fixed Window Scans implemented
 * Still requires documentation and release notes
 * Requires some better data to test with - MG to follow this up
* Some discussion about requirements for background, and calibration
 * VR - add some info?

* Work for next week:
 * Try FWS with other data
 * Other options for FWS

### ToF Spectroscopy:

#### Ian:

* Initial goals for the week were:
 * ToF workflow
   * `GetEiMonDet` paramaeter calculation in load
   * Documentation, test, refactoring
 * NoBugs talk
 * Design document for scanning instruments
   * BF mentioned FlatCone also having this requirement
 
* `LoadILLTOF` now creates a `pulse_interval` sample log
* `MergeRuns` now works for a single workspace
 * Fixed a bug that appeared in the unit tests when making this change, to do with merging different workspace types
* ToF Workflow
 * Uses  `MergeRuns`, `ExtractMonitors`
 * Uses `pulse_interval` sample log
 * Some input validation, workspace input option
 * Some basic unit tests for IN4 and IN6 added
 * Code tidy up and bug fixes

* Work for next week:
 * NoBugs talk
 * Design document for scanning instruments (also for NoBugs)

#### Antti:

* On holiday - IB mentioned he had been working on vanadium calibration correction and documentation for ToF Workflow



