Agenda
=========

* [Plans for indexing changes](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Presentations/Review_Meetings/plans_indexing_changes.md) (spectrum numbers, detector IDs, workspace indices, ...) (Simon, 5-10 minutes)
* MSlice development review (Eltayeb)
* [Added geometry handling for ConvertAxisByFormula] (http://docs.mantidproject.org/nightly/algorithms/ConvertAxisByFormula-v1.html) (Nick/Anton)
* Add you links/material here

Questions
=========

* Add your questions here

